Describe and assess the major weakness attributable to single-factor approaches when hedging portfolios or implementing asset liability techniques[1].
Weaknesses attributable to single-factor approaches
Up until now, we have worked with fixed income portfolios using duration and convexity to assess the impact on our portfolio give, e.g. a change in yields. However, this approach presupposes that we can think of the term-structure as being governed by a single factor.  Now, the problem with this is that it is observed that for different maturities we observe shifts that do not always move by the same relative or absolute magnitude; indeed we can observe that 10-year rates go down at the same time as 3-year rates go down. This is what is known as curve risk. To better understand why one factor is not necessarily ideal, we can analyze models of the term-structure of interest rates. Most models nowadays have at least 3 factors, an intercept, a slope factor and a concavity factor. These 3 factors combines explain more than 95% of movements in the term-structure of interest rates; however, a single factor alone, such as DV01 performs much less favorably. 
Hedging portfolios and matching assets and liabilities
Since we just saw that rates of different maturities can change in opposite direction, or with different absolute or relative magnitudes, a natural implication of this is: what about our hedges, or the matching of our assets and liabilities? Well, since we are exposed to curve-risk, especially with one factor approaches such as DV01, it is clear that we have to reassess how we think about hedging.

Define key rate exposures and know the characteristics of key rate exposure[2] factors including partial ?01s and forward-bucket ?01s.
When talking about key rate exposures three approaches that naturally come up are key-rate shifts, partial ?01s and forward-bucket ?01s. Below we will explore each of these techniques in more detail. However, the common theme of key rate exposures is that different maturity rates do not change in tandem. So rather than matching the total duration, we disaggregate the information about duration. That is, we look at the distribution of risk across maturities, and see what combination of different maturity rates can constitute a good hedge for our portfolio.

